okay three three things I'm looking for
in a reining horse would be breeding
confirmation and heart and desire the
thing I put the most emphasis on would
be heart and desire because if the horse
doesn't have the heart and desire to do
the job you're going to have trouble
getting them to do what you need him to
do
over the last 30 years we've been
breeding reining horses to reining
horses looking for horses that can stop
and turn and encircle and stay really
quiet minded years ago we used to use
cutting bred horses that weren't
necessarily bred to do the job and their
mental ability may not have been perfect
for a reining horse these days we're
looking at horses that have been bred
over the years to be reining horses they
love doing they love stopping they love
spinning I love running fire circles and
then just coming back to a slow circle
so that's where we go back into heart
and desire those horses being bred to
have the heart and desire to do what we
wanted them to do
when I'm looking for a horse for one of
my customers or someone who's wanting to
get into the sport I'm looking for a
horse that has a fair bit of experience
so that person doesn't have to try and
learn how to train the horse and learn
the maneuvers and the horse doesn't have
to learn and move this from somebody who
doesn't really know what they're doing
and they're just learning themselves
when I start riding them it doesn't take
very long to find out whether they have
the mind to do the job I'm asking to do
the important thing is you know how far
they can go how what sort of level
they're going to go to some horses are
going to be non-pro horses the
intermediate a non-pro horses other
horses are going to be open horses it
depends on the horse I let the horse
tell me what it's going to do as far as
that's concerned
but generally I start with the breeding
and then the conformation and then we're
going to see how much heart and desire
how much want they have to do the
various maneuvers
when you're looking for an open house
the temperament is really important
because you're going to push those
horses a little bit you're going to ask
them for a lot you want them to be able
to run and stop you want them to be able
to turn quite fast and then let it all
go if if they're busy or there they they
worry about stuff then those horses
going to not stay mentally relaxed when
you ask for something quite quickly and
then shut them off again
the front end of a reining horse needs
to be quite elegant it can't be too
thick and bulky because when they're
doing a spin or rollback they have to be
able to cross and be very athletic with
their front legs so a horse that's
really wider than the shoulders is going
to have trouble doing that sort of thing
I'm looking for a horse that's around
fourteen three hands compact a nice
length of rain nice and clean through
the throat that's a good hip and good
stifle Gaston muscles a good strength so
they can hold the ground in the stop and
and an elegant front end
if they can run down there and stop and
really use themselves
that's pretty to me so as far as leak
blemishes or you know as long as it's
not going to affect their performance it
really doesn't worry me they've got the
heart and desire to go and do what I ask
them to do and make it look easy that's
good enough for me
the size of the reigning horse is
reasonably important a tall horse will
have trouble turning around it would
want to be a little bit hoppy when it
spins a shorter horse will be more
compact and more agile so for me a horse
between 14 2 and 15 hands is ideal but
having said that I've seen some horses
that are quite big that can really do
the stuff so again pretty is as pretty
does there's no real height restriction
but they've got to be able to do what
you're asking
when I'm training my reining horses I do
use a lot of seat I like to ride my
muscles up into the bridle and use my
leg as a secondary aid very nice
electrosurgical to outside rein for me
is really important I ride inside lead
to outside rein very much like the
dressage riders ride because I want my
horse to work off the outside rein
ultimately when we're steering a reining
horse everything comes from the outside
rein the inside rein should be loose so
the horse must understand how that
outside rein works so I spend a lot of
time working inside lead to outs of rain
making sure my almost bends around that
plain side leg and this soft to the
outside rein so when I lay the outs I
ran on his neck he's not going to brace
up
he's not gonna resist he's just gonna
melt and fold and steer away from the
outside right
don't buy a green horse number one do
not buy a green horse get a horse it is
solid into maneuvers because the best
way to learn is to have a horse that can
really do a maneuver if you're running
down there and gonna ask your horse to
stop and you don't know whether it's
actually going to happen or not and you
brace up well it's going to be really
difficult you're not going to learn
you're gonna start to worry you're gonna
start to get a little tense if your
horse if you know your horse is going to
run down there and stop you'll get
confident with that maneuver same of the
spin and same with lead changes in
circles so really the number one thing
is do your research
don't rush make sure you find the right
horse for you make sure that it's either
solid Norseman if it doesn't have to be
spectacular but it has to be able to
stop every time you say well it has to
be able to turn every time you lay the
rein on this thing it has to be able to
change when you press your leg on its
side so those things are really
important do not do not do not get a
green horse